Nature refers to the natural resources, plants, animals and other forms of living and non living things that exist naturally in the universe. One very important part of nature is the wildlife. Nature includes rich and diverse wildlife. Wildlife mostly refers to the undomesticated animal species, but also comprises other species like plant, fungi and other organisms that exist and penetrate independent of human intrusion. Wildlife is present in the entire ecosystem including forests, deserts, rainforests and grasslands. Diverse forms of wildlife can be found in these areas.

Some animals are domesticated by human beings. Human beings also use animals for personal activities or entertainment and serve them as pets taking them away from their natural habitat. Animals are also caged in the zoo for public display and this disrupts their skills to hunt their meals independently and survive wild in the nature. In modern times, interest and concern for natural environment has seen a rise. Many activists have objected to the exploitation of wildlife for human benefits.

Threats to Nature and Wildlife

    Global Warming: Global warming is raising the temperature of the climate on earth and is responsible for severe natural calamities like flood, hurricanes, droughts, etc. This also causes danger to our natural environment, adding pressure to our wildlife species and their habitat. Global warming can cause loss of several wild life species.
    Overuse of Wildlife: Due to rise in population there is upsurge in use of wildlife and plant species by human beings for food, clothing, medicine, pets and several other purposes. If we use more than the nature could supply then some of the species might get exploited completely.
    Deforestation: Due to personal needs, urbanization and development humans are clearing away forests. Forests are important for the natural cycle of ecosystem in which several animals feed on plants. It leads to the loss of habitat of several species. Forests are also important to reduce the effects of global warming as trees absorb carbon dioxide and release oxygen in the atmosphere.
    Hunting and Poaching: Human beings hunt and poach animals for personal benefits which endangers the wildlife. Forest management should be strict and precise to deal with the issue.

Conclusion

Wildlife is important part of nature and helps balance the natural environment. The main aim of wildlife conservation is to save and preserve the wildlife for the future generations to enjoy. Wildlife conservation has become an important practice as human activities have affected wildlife negatively. Several programs are initiated by government for wildlife conservation. There are many government agencies and NGO’s working for wildlife conservation. Various campaigns and NGO’s are promoting the causes of wildlife conservation to protect nature as a whole.
